---
layout: post
title: "RoR - 27"
date: 2013-12-12 19:51
comments: true
categories: 
---

New numbering
=
Yesterday I took a day off, so I guess the day counting could stop.
But I still decided to keep the article count. Now 27th of the Ruby on Rails series.

Workflow
=
I continue to build the Depot clone on my own, but I realize that going from 100%
on the book to 0% is too hard, making me get lost too often too quickly.
Sometimes not even sure what to search for on Google.
So I went back to the book for pointers and ideas, and then go implement without
typing against the book's code as I did for the first read.

With such workflow, my code works most of the time, but occationally I still need
the book to get on track. This time at least I have a feeling of where to write
stuff for which things, at the back of my head. That's a good thing.
I guess it's just normal to get confusion from a such a _magical_ framework like Rails.

Migration
=
My db migrations often went incomplete the first try. I had to do multiple migrations
to get and understand what in the book was just one whole migration.

Styling
=
I skipped much of the not-so-fancy css styling from the book, but start with overly simplistic
styling _which I understand_. Then, improve with effects as I find the look more unsatifying.
This has been a good process to learn css/scss, as I can observe each effect immediately and
separately.

JQuery
=
The book appears to be a little out of date, since the gem of jquery has moved the jquery-ui part
out to be another standalone gem called `jquery-ui-rails`, no longer part of `jquery-rails`.

With jquery, I am having some difficulty in getting the css highlighting effect to work. Ajax-ly adding
items to cart works, but not with the css animation effect. When I tried to enable the css animate
code, it even broke the already working ajax-ly update of cart.