---
layout: post
title: "The Setup - 1"
date: 2013-12-14 22:33
comments: true
categories: 
---

Human Interface
=

Mouse has been around for about 30 to 40 years. 
Keyboards are even older than that, since the ages of typewriter, before computers.
Still, they are the most common human interface around today.

Touch screen has come along, but pretty much only used on smaller screens like phones.
Most recently, there's been some utilization of body language due to advancement of
sensors and computer vision.  That's about it about human interface.

I love the keyboard much, primarily because of it's faster than mouse in many cases.
The most important reason is that, pressing a keyboard shortcut needs less finger movement,
and only cost about 0.1 to 0.2 seconds. Plus, keyboard has a large vocabulary, many commands
can be issued from keyboard. Contract to mouse, which has 2 to 5 keys and pointer device.

Mouse is great at selecting things, much more accurate and intuitive. So occationally, or
when commands are not at hand, mouse is better.

My setup with keyboard
=
- Blackwidow mechanical keyboard
- Macros using Synapse 2.0 to activate common apps. No more `cmd + tab`, one key to one app.
For this, I map F15 to F19 to Firefox, Sublime, Chrome, iTerm and Preview for pdf reading.
- Use `slate` app to do window management, so I can maximize, left-half, right-half the screen
with just one key.
- Use `Alfred` to launch less often used apps.
- Use Vim, Sublime, iTerm, and be familiar with the common shortcuts.
- In Firefox, use vimperator; in Chrome, use Vimium.
- Disable Capslock, use KeyboardHackForMac to make it a `control` when pressed long, a `ESC` when pressed short time.
- `ESC` is mapped to a window layout
- left/right shift mapped to `(` and `)` when pressed short.
- Left `control` mapped to a _super meta_, which is `ctrl+shift+cmd+option`


