---
layout: post
title: "RoR Day 20"
date: 2013-12-04 21:40
comments: true
categories: 
---

Progress
=
- CreditCard Processor Gem (ActiveMerchant)
- Haml ( Yet another compressed syntax like Sass )
- More Plugins
- Page 457/476 (96.0%) -> End of All Readings

"Syntax Compression"
=
Replace a long "class=.." with "." is clearly easier to type.
Less verbose, but semantically the same. What's changed is the
syntax, or could say _compressed_.

The more often used stuff are compressed to shorter things like just
a single char. It's mathematically obvious that encodings like this save
more space/typing.

Just like in algebra, complex variables are represented by just a Greek letter.
It makes writing, reading, reasoning all the easier.

It's for humans, the hands and the brains.

"Funny names"
=
Cucumber, Rspec, webrat.. It's definitely just 0s and 1s and nothing special.
I think the _branding_ is to create identity, to advertise, to make an impression,
to humans, ultimately.

Serves similar to _syntax compression_, it taps to how human brain works, related
to cognative science, neuro science and phycology. One of the ways for gamblers to
remember cards is to associate each card with a unique object like a flag, a tree etc.
It's the common memorization techniques.

We could go futher to create deeper associations. One example is, to remember several
random objects, one imagine a room he's in and _put_ the random things to certain
locations in the room, as one _virtually_ walking inside it. This creates connections
to things with one's sense of space ( room places ) and time ( walking ).

Maybe next time I'll name some Gem this way, when I write my own gems.


"Voila"
=
It's the end of first time reading this book. A lot is learned, a lot is made sense of,
still a lot is missing the connection.

Next up, I'll try to redo the app on my own, _without_ following the steps, to refresh the
memory and understanding.
